That should be recording now.
Yeah, I think that's going.
This is Jim Barrett interviewing Danny Thomas at his house on the 9th of April 2018.
Danny signed the project consent form.
This interview has been recorded for Wunderbras 25 project funded by HLF Cymru.
OK, off we go.
So when did you actually join Wunderbras, Danny, do you know?
I think it must have been about at least 15 years ago.
I can't remember the date exactly.
It was, I just tried to start a blues group a little bit before and that hadn't been successful.
And I happened to notice a poster, I think it was in the station saying Taff Ely Street Band, anyone can join and sing where the practices were.
And so I put my guitar and went over to see.
Taff Ely Street Band, so it's probably more than 15 years, probably more like 20 I should think.
I'm not quite sure when it turned from Taff Ely to Wunderbras.
Yeah, the poster said Taff Ely, I think it had just changed.
Yeah, by the time I joined.
You are one of the very early members.
Not the very, very early.
I think, well I was told they started with about nine people, didn't they?
Yeah.
It had grown a bit by then to about 20.
OK.
And you started, you were playing tenor saxophone?
Not to start with.
I took my acoustic guitar the first time.
All right.
And they found out that it was, acoustic guitar was impossibly too quiet.
So I broke the electric the following week.
And I played that for I think two years before I started getting interested in saxophone and stuff.
OK.
I can't remember you playing guitar with Wunderbras.
Yeah.
If you remember, I was playing guitar when we went to Vienna.
All right.
Yeah.
Yes.
It was a later stage.
I picked up the saxophone.
Well, it was meeting all kind of people playing brass instruments really, Wunderbras encouraged me to.
To start playing.
Start playing saxophone.
Yeah.
So did you get lessons then on the saxophone?
Not to start with.
I have since then occasionally.
Mostly taught myself.
That's impressive.
Was guitar your first instrument?
Yes.
OK.
And how long had you been playing the guitar when you joined?
I'd been, well, quite a long time really.
I started playing guitar when I was about 12 or 13 years old.
But yeah, and I pretty much taught myself again.
Yeah.
What I first sort of found joining Wunderbras, it was like it did different kind of worlds.
I'd been used to kind of rock bands and blues bands.
And it was a completely different genre really in which people were talking about sevenths and ninths.
Yeah.
All kinds of things like that.
And a lot of people could read music and I was not really able to do that.
Yeah.
So that's why you went over to saxophone?
Partly, yeah.
I was playing the kind of chords and I was not really understanding a lot about the melodies and soloing and stuff.
And one of the reasons going over to saxophone was to get a more of a grasp of that.
I felt that it was there in the background, but I couldn't articulate it and actually play it.
Yeah.
And what was Wunderbras like when you joined it with those people?
In sort of what way?
Well, was it what you expected when you actually saw the notes and went along?
No, not really.
But because people were talking about things, sort of musical things that I didn't really, jazz things.
And lots of people knew about people like Miles Davis and John Coltrane and I never heard of him.
So he was like a bit of a shock really to the system.
Okay.
And also musically, I realised things like timing wasn't good.
There were lots of things that made me like punching the stomach really to start with.
But it made me think, well, you know, did give me a challenge to, you know.
And also like playing in keys that, you know, guitarists don't normally do like E flat and E flat.
Yeah, yeah.
Challenging. But did you feel comfortable with the band?
I think so, half and half really, a little bit overwhelming in one way.
But yeah, there were some good people there.
Yeah. And Vienne, that's a trip that I didn't do.
I can't remember why I didn't do Vienne.
I sort of came and went a bit with One Debrass because I was up in London a bit higher.
We're actually recording the moment, but never mind.
Is that right?
I thought you'd recorded the moment.
Yes, I don't remember you from that period when I started, but then you did, I remember you coming back into One Debrass, I think, around the time of Breck and Jazz.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was probably playing double bass then, was I?
What were you playing? No, I don't think you were.
Oh, then it must have been bass clarinet.
I think it was bass clarinet because, what were they called?
They were two women, one young girl.
Oh, Joanna.
Yes, that's it. And then there was, I think that's someone else, another woman, which I can't remember her name.
Yes, I should know her name.
Anyway.
So how did you like going to Vienne? What did you think about that?
Oh, that was great, really.
It was a new kind of experience again.
And the end itself was spectacular, the stadium and all that.
And yeah, it was great.
Are there any other sort of standout gigs or events with One Debrass?
I'll try to think. Some of the other festivals.
Breck and Jazz could always, was good quite often, I think.
The times when you went down really well, it seemed to suit that kind of street thing.
We did, yeah.
That I'm trying to think of.
Oh, we went down to Denise's Wedding. That was great.
I just, the location was really...
The Druidstone Hotel.
Yeah, that's it.
Out in West Wales.
Yeah.
Yeah. Have you been out there many times or, because there was a sort of habit of One Debrass going out there quite often.
I didn't go again with One Debrass.
Right. Okay. There is another One Debrass wedding coming up.
The Druidstone Short actually.
Okay. So yeah.
Anything else that you sort of remember about the band or your experiences in it?
Well, it, another kind of thing was the Ponti Jazz Club, which was closely associated with One Debrass.
And that has kind of kept going.
Yeah.
Even though One Debrass moved down to Cardiff now.
And, yeah, I still, there's something to do, I've got friends with a lot of people that were One Debrass people, like Charles.
Yeah.
And Dave Moroe.
Yes.
And Derek and stuff.
Yeah. Well, Derek and Charles are still playing with the band.
Yeah.
Dave Moroe, no, he's off doing other stuff.
Have you been doing other stuff yourself since One Debrass?
Yeah, I kind of was involved with a band that started in work, which started off as a soul band, then drifted more into kind of Latin and soul.
Which I did that for about four years, but it's difficult to keep a band together, really, personalities and stuff.
Were you playing saxophone or guitar?
I was playing both, actually, depending on the song.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was very enjoyable.
Is that something that's, I mean, do you think if you had not been in One Debrass that that's something you would have done?
I think, well, I wouldn't have started playing the saxophone without being in One Debrass.
I think I've always had the urge to be doing something in music.
So I probably would be doing some kind of a band or maybe trying or maybe dreaming of being in a band.
But, yeah, it, but One Debrass did have a big influence on some styles of music and, you know, and playing the saxophone and stuff like that.
So why did you actually cease being part of One Debrass?
I think, well, a number of reasons.
I think I slightly got fed up at times with it.
I think it's inevitable, really.
And I suppose I wanted to do something more like write my own tunes and have more control over my own band, really.
To move towards doing that, really.
Good.
And we got this project 25 when we're getting quite a few old or ex-members, I should say, oldies of the press, the long term, ex-members, because nobody's as old as me, ex-members, sort of coming back, not necessarily to rejoin as much as to just do a bit of One Debrass and meet up.
Would you be interested in getting involved?
Yeah.
Okay, we'll have to talk about what might be possible.
Okay, thanks a lot, Danny.